# hnRNPL-phase-separation-2025
This repository contains the source data and codes of main and supplementary figures of article hnRNPL phase separation activates PIK3CB transcription and promotes glycolysis in ovarian cancer.

Abstract
Ovarian cancer has the highest mortality rate among gynecologic tumors worldwide, with unclear underlying mechanisms of pathogenesis. RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) primarily direct post-transcriptional regulation through modulating RNA metabolism. Recent evidence demonstrates that RBPs are also implicated in transcriptional control. However, the role and mechanism of RBP-mediated transcriptional regulation in tumorigenesis remain largely unexplored. Here, we show that the RBP heterogeneous ribonucleoprotein L (hnRNPL) interacts with chromatin and regulates gene transcription by forming phase-separated condensates in ovarian cancer. hnRNPL phase separation activates PIK3CB transcription and glycolysis, thus promoting ovarian cancer progression. Notably, we observe that the PIK3CB promoter is transcribed to produce a non-coding RNA which interacts with hnRNPL and promotes hnRNPL condensation. Furthermore, hnRNPL is significantly amplified in ovarian cancer, and its high expression predicts poor prognosis for ovarian cancer patients. By using cell-derived xenograft and patient-derived organoid models, we show that hnRNPL knockdown suppresses ovarian tumorigenesis. Together, our study reveals that phase separation of the chromatin-associated RBP hnRNPL promotes PIK3CB transcription and glycolysis to facilitate tumorigenesis in ovarian cancer. The formed hnRNPL-PIK3CB-AKT axis depending on phase separation can serve as a potential therapeutic target for ovarian cancer.

1. hnRNPL RNA seq sequences reads: SRA accession number is: PRJNA988254, GEO accesion number is: . 
2. hnRNPL ChIP seq sequences reads: SRA accession number is: PRJNA988255, GEO accesion number is: GSE289074. 
3. RNApolII ChIP seq sequences reads: SRA accession number is: PRJNA1071467, GEO accesion number is: GSE289075. 
